
1. Int J Ophthalmol. 2012;5(2):158-63. Epub 2012 Apr 18.

In vitro transdifferentiation of corneal epithelial-like cells from human
skin-derived precursor cells.

Saichanma S, Bunyaratvej A, Sila-Asna M.

Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol

The damage of human corneal cells encounter with the problem of availability of
corneal cells for replacement. Limitation of the source of corneal cells has been
realized. An attempt of development of corneal epithelial-like cells from the
human skin-derived precursor (hSKPs) has been made in this study. Combination of
three essential growth factors: epidermal growth factor (EGF), keratinocyte
growth factor (KGF) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) could demonstrate
successfully induction of hSKPs to differentiation into corneal cells.The induced
cells expressed the appearance of markers of corneal epithelial cells as shown by
the presence of keratin 3 (K3) by antibody label and Western blot assay. The K3
gene expression of induced hSKPs cells as shown by reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technology was also
demonstrated. The presence of these markers at both gene and protein levels could
lead to our conclusion that the directional transdifferentiation of hSKPs cells
into corneal epithelial cells was successfully done under this cell induction
protocol. The finding shows a newly available stem cell source can be obtained
from easily available skin. Cells from autologous human skin might be used for
corneal disorder treatment in future clinical application.

PMID: 22762041  [PubMed - in process]


2. Int J Ophthalmol. 2012;5(2):125-32. Epub 2012 Apr 18.

Age-related maculopathy susceptibility 2 participates in the phagocytosis
functions of the retinal pigment epithelium.

Xu YT, Wang Y, Chen P, Xu HF.

School of Medicine and Life Sciences of Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences,
University of Jinan, Jinan 250022, Shandong Province, China.

AIM: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a multifactorial disease and a
prevalent cause of visual impairment in developed countries. Many studies suggest
that age-related maculopathy susceptibility 2 (ARMS2) is a second major
susceptibility gene for AMD. At present, there is no functional information on
this gene. Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to detect the
expression of ARMS2 in retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells and to investigate
the effect of ARMS2 on the phagocytosis function of RPE cells.
METHODS: Immunofluorescence and reverse transcriptase PCR were used to
demonstrate the presence and location of ARMS2 in ARPE-19 (human retinal pigment
epithelial cell line, ATCC, catalog No.CRL-2302) cells. siRNA was used to knock
down ARMS2 mRNA, and the effects of the knockdown on the phagocytosis function of
the ARPE-19 cells were evaluated via Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorting (FACS).
RESULTS: ARMS2 was present in ARPE-19 cells, localized in the cytosol of the
perinuclear region. The expression of ARMS2 mRNA (messenger RNA) in ARPE-19 cells
transfected with ARMS2-siRNA (small interfering RNA, 0.73±0.08) was decreased
compared with normal cells (1.00±0.00) or with cells transfected with scrambled
siRNA (0.95±0.13) (P<0.05). After incubation of RPE cells with a latex beads
medium for 12, 18, or 24 hours, the fluorescence intensities were 38.04±1.02,
68.92±0.92, and 78.00±0.12 in the ARMS2-siRNA-transfected groups, respectively,
and 77.98±5.43, 94.87±0.60, and 98.30±0.11 in the scrambled siRNA-transfected
groups, respectively. The fluorescent intensities of the same time points in the
two groups were compared using Student's t-test, and the p values were all less
than 0.001 at the three different time points.
CONCLUSION: There is endogenous expression of ARMS2 in ARPE-19 cells. ARMS2 plays
a role in the phagocytosis function of RPE cells, and this role may be one of the
mechanisms that participates in the development of AMD.

PMID: 22762035  [PubMed - in process]


78. Genome Dyn. 2012;7:92-107. Epub 2012 Jun 25.

SINEs as Driving Forces in Genome Evolution.

Schmitz J.

Institute of Experimental Pathology, University of Münster, Münster, Germany.

SINEs are short interspersed elements derived from cellular RNAs that
repetitively retropose via RNA intermediates and integrate more or less randomly
back into the genome. SINEs propagate almost entirely vertically within their
host cells and, once established in the germline, are passed on from generation
to generation. As non-autonomous elements, their reverse transcription (from RNA
to cDNA) and genomic integration depends on the activity of the enzymatic
machinery of autonomous retrotransposons, such as long interspersed elements
(LINEs). SINEs are widely distributed in eukaryotes, but are especially
effectively propagated in mammalian species. For example, more than a million
Alu-SINE copies populate the human genome (approximately 13% of genomic space),
and few master copies of them are still active. In the organisms where they
occur, SINEs are a challenge to genomic integrity, but in the long term also can
serve as beneficial building blocks for evolution, contributing to phenotypic
heterogeneity and modifying gene regulatory networks. They substantially expand
the genomic space and introduce structural variation to the genome. SINEs have
the potential to mutate genes, to alter gene expression, and to generate new
parts of genes. A balanced distribution and controlled activity of such
properties is crucial to maintaining the organism's dynamic and thriving
evolution.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

PMID: 22759815  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]

